We are at war, and that is very clear.
So for all of us,
we have to protect ourselves
from Satan and the demons
and the spiritual fight is on to the finish.
“Working out [our] salvation
with fear and trembling” is essential.
Let’s open our Bibles
to Revelation chapter 12,
and let’s learn
why the Devil is so infuriated
and why he hates Jehovah’s servants.
We’re going to focus first
on Revelation chapter 12 and verse 11
—verse 11:
“And they [that’s the anointed remnant]
conquered him [that’s the Devil].”
He hates that.
The anointed conquer Satan the Devil.
They prove him to be a liar.
They’re loyal; they’re integrity-keepers;
their conduct and their words
—everything that they do—
conquer the Devil.
And yet, in addition to that,
in addition to their faith in the ransom,
verse 11 goes on to say something else
which truly infuriates the Devil.
It says that they conquer him
by “the word of their witnessing.”
Matthew 24:14—the preaching activity.
Notice, there is a direct connection
between conquering Satan
and our preaching activity.
That’s what he hates,
and that is why he relentlessly attacks
our preaching activity
and tries to stir up opposition.
He’s conquered by means
of the preaching work.
But Satan’s opposition
to our preaching work is nothing new.
Let’s open our Bibles to Amos chapter 7,
and note some striking similarities
between our day and Amos’ day
—Amos chapter 7.
Now this is when Jehovah God sent Amos
to the ten-tribe kingdom of Israel.
Jeroboam was the king,
and he put calf worship there
in a city called Bethel,
and calf worship was now a part
of the religion there
at the ten-tribe kingdom.
So now Amos finds himself
right in the middle of that situation.
But let’s see what happens
—how the opposition mounts
and how it’s similar in our day.
Verse 10:
“Amaziah the priest of Bethel”
—so Amaziah is the priest
of this State religion of calf worship.
Bethel is the center of apostate religion.
What does Amaziah do?
He sends a message
to King Jeroboam of Israel.
Notice now how the religious entity, Amaziah,
sends the message to the State
(over to the government),
to King Jeroboam, and gets him all worked up,
and he says: “Amos is conspiring against you
“right in the midst of the house of Israel.
The land cannot put up with all his words.”
Conspiring against Jeroboam
—this was an act of treason.
So you see, this lying report
went straight to Jeroboam
from Amaziah (the priest),
but now see what happens here in verse 11.
He stirs up opposition, true,
but now notice
the three misleading statements
that Amaziah accuses Amos of.
(1) “For this is what Amos says.”
That’s not true.
Amos didn’t say that.
Amos always said:
‘This is what Jehovah wants me to say.
This is what Jehovah commanded me to say.’
But Amaziah just says:
“This is what Amos [said]”—misleading.
(2) “Jeroboam will die by the sword.”
Amos never said that.
You see, Amos said
that it was Jeroboam’s house
—his dynasty or his posterity—
that would die.
So, again, a misleading,
distorted way of presenting matters.
(3) “Israel will surely go
into exile from its land.”
However, Amaziah does not add
that Amos was trying to help people.
Amos was trying
to turn people to Jehovah God.
‘Serve Jehovah God,
and you’ll get a blessing.
Do what Jehovah wants you to do,
and you’ll have his favor.’
So Amaziah doesn’t touch that.
He doesn’t say anything positive
that Amos is doing.
So you see, these are the three things
that Amaziah was doing and accusing Amos of
—three misleading statements,
distorted half-truths—
in an effort to get the official ban
on the preaching activity of Amos.
Do we see something similar today?
We note striking similarities
between the methods of Amaziah
and those employed by the opposers
of Jehovah’s people.
Just as Amaziah tried to silence Amos,
so certain religious leaders
today do the same.
They try to block the preaching work
of Jehovah’s servants.
Amaziah falsely accused Amos of treason.
Today, some religious leaders
falsely accuse Jehovah’s people
of being a threat to national security.
Just as Amaziah turned to the king,
Jeroboam, to help in opposing Amos,
so religious leaders today
often turn to political allies
in an effort to support their persecution
of Jehovah’s Witnesses—striking similarities.
When it comes to the preaching work,
you see, the Devil hates it.
What would Amos do?
Would he back down?
Would he be intimidated?
Would he cower in fear?
Would he run away from his assignment?
He was just a shepherd boy.
He was one who took care of figs,
and he was a herdsman.
And here he’s taken
from his little, bleak surroundings,
and he’s put right in the middle
of this hotbed of activity there
at Bethel—apostate center.
It’s interesting that he didn’t go off
into some area where there were no people,
but he was right there at the nerve center.
This little, humble, modest man, Amos
—we don’t know much about him.
He’s not impressive,
but his message is impressive.
And more importantly,
you see how Jehovah emboldened him
with his holy spirit
to be valiant and courageous
in the middle of this situation.
So let’s see what Amos says.
What did he do?
Verse 16:
“So now hear the word of Jehovah.”
Now, Amos is saying this to Amaziah.
“Hear the word of Jehovah.”
Again, he gives Jehovah all the credit:
‘It’s not me; it’s Jehovah
who asked me to do this, Amaziah.
‘It’s as if a lion roars;
who would not be afraid?
‘Jehovah speaks,
and I’m going to spring into action.
So this is the word of Jehovah.’
“You are saying [to me],
‘Do not prophesy against Israel,
and do not preach
against the house of Isaac,’”
or the descendants of Jacob,
which would have been that ten-tribe kingdom.
Amos says: ‘I can’t do that.
‘I cannot stop.
This commission comes from Jehovah God.’
Does he cower?
No.
In fact, verse 17:
“Therefore this is what Jehovah says:
‘[Amaziah,] your wife
will become a prostitute in the city.’”
Now, that would mean that his wife
would be violated
by the soldiers of a conquering army.
‘Your sons and your daughters
will fall by the sword.
You yourself are going to be buried
on unclean land.’
That’s outside of Israel.
‘That’s what I have to say.
Checkmate.’
It’s amazing.
Amos—really, when you think about this man
and how he just wanted
to do Jehovah’s work (Jehovah’s will),
he was not intimidated and neither are we.
When it comes to speaking Jehovah’s word,
we will not disobey Jehovah God.
Even in the lands
where we have these modern-day “Amaziahs”
fomenting cruel persecution,
like Amos, we keep on proclaiming,
“This is what Jehovah says.”
Well, Jehovah God
tried to help those Israelites.
He tried to help them change their ways.
He used Amos to preach to them.
And today, look at us;
look at Jehovah’s people earth wide
trying to help people.
And the Devil hates this work.
That’s the point.
Why?
Because it conquers him.
The faithful slave is successful.
Look at what the anointed
are doing in fulfilling Matthew 24:14.
What is our role at Bethel?
Why are we talking about this
to the Bethel family?
Because we are the support group
we are Kingdom Support Services.
In any war, in any war,
we have to have a supply line.
If that supply line
is cut off from the front lines,
those front-lines people are in trouble.
And in any war, the idea is to cut off—
The enemy wants to cut off that supply line,
wants to sever the supply line.
It demoralizes the troops.
That’s our job.
We are the supply line.
The Kingdom support role is vital
as we serve at Bethel.
It’s a noble, honorable, work
to help the preaching work
continue to move forward.
Now, as we look at chapter 4,
Jehovah is such a God of kindness and mercy.
In chapter 4, Jehovah repeatedly recounts
how he tried to help his people.
He sent Amos.
He tries to correct them and chastise them,
and he sends Amos back over and over again.
And there’s this reoccurring theme.
Five times He reminds them
how He tried to help them
and five times: ‘You did not come back to me.
‘You ten-tribe kingdom,
you did not come back to me.
‘I tried to help you.
‘You did not come back to me.
‘I’m trying to help.
‘You didn’t come back to me.
‘So there’s only one option;
you leave me one decision to make;
it’s military confrontation.’
And that’s the way it will be in our day.
There’s one option
—military confrontation—
because people will not come back to Jehovah.
Then what will happen?
Chapter 4, verse 12:
“Get ready to meet your God.”